add doc for v5.1: Deploy -> Install TiKV (#231)
tikv/website: content/docs/5.1/deploy/install/prerequisites.md

---
title: Prerequisites
description: Prerequisites for deploying TiKV
menu:
    "5.1":
        parent: Install TiKV
        weight: 1
---

Typical deployments of TiKV include a number of components:

* 3+ TiKV nodes
* 3+ Placement Driver (PD) nodes
* 1 Monitoring node

> * 1 or more client application

Author: sure

---
title: Prerequisites
description: Learn the software and hardware recommendations for deploying and running TiKV
menu:
    "5.1":
        parent: Install TiKV
        weight: 1
---

> As an open source distributed key-value database, TiKV can be deployed in the Intel architecture server, ARM architecture server, and major virtualization environments and runs well. TiKV supports most of the major hardware networks and Linux operating systems.

Reviewer: I can't see the connection between `open source distributed key-value database` and cross-platform. May be better to split this sentence into two statements.

Author: sure

## Linux OS version requirements

|    Linux OS Platform     |          Version          |
|:------------------------:|:-------------------------:|
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux | 7.3 or later 7.x releases |
|          CentOS          | 7.3 or later 7.x releases |
| Oracle Enterprise Linux  | 7.3 or later 7.x releases |
|        Ubuntu LTS        |      16.04 or later       |

Other Linux OS versions such as Debian Linux and Fedora Linux might work but are not officially supported.

## Software recommendations

### Control machine

| Software | Version        |
|:-------- |:-------------- |
| sshpass  | 1.06 or later  |
| TiUP     | 1.4.0 or later |

{{< info >}}
It is required that you [deploy TiUP on the control machine](../production#step-1-install-tiup-on-the-control-machine) to operate and manage TiKV clusters.
{{< /info >}}

### Target machines

| Software | Version         |
|:-------- |:--------------- |
| sshpass  | 1.06 or later   |
| numa     | 2.0.12 or later |
| tar      | any             |

## Server recommendations

> You can deploy and run TiKV on the 64-bit generic hardware server platform in the Intel x86-64 architecture or on the hardware server platform in the ARM architecture. The requirements and recommendations about server hardware configuration (ignoring the resources occupied by the operating system itself) for development, test, and production environments are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can deploy and run TiKV on the 64-bit generic hardware server platform in the Intel x86-64 architecture or on the hardware server platform in the ARM architecture. The recommendations about server hardware configuration (ignoring the resources occupied by the operating system itself) for development, test, and production environments are as follows:
```

### Development and test environments

| Component |   CPU   | Memory | Local Storage |       Network        | Instance Number (Minimum Requirement) |
|:---------:|:-------:|:------:|:-------------:|:--------------------:|:-------------------------------------:|
|    PD     | 4 core+ | 8 GB+  | SAS, 200 GB+  | Gigabit network card |                   1                   |

> |   TiKV    | 8 core+ | 32 GB+ | SAS, 200 GB+  | Gigabit network card |                   3                   |

Reviewer: Why 3 TiKV is needed?

Author: At least 3 TiKV is needed for production environments.

Author: For performance-related test, the benchmark will be inaccurate if using only one TiKV.

- In the test environment, the TiKV and PD instances can be deployed on the same server.
- For performance-related test, do not use low-performance storage and network hardware configuration, in order to guarantee the correctness of the test result.
- For the TiKV server, it is recommended to use NVMe SSDs to ensure faster reads and writes.
{{< /info >}}

### Production environment

| Component |   CPU    | Memory | Hard Disk Type |                Network                | Instance Number (Minimum Requirement) |
|:---------:|:--------:|:------:|:--------------:|:-------------------------------------:|:-------------------------------------:|
|    PD     | 4 core+  | 8 GB+  |      SSD       | 10 Gigabit network card (2 preferred) |                   3                   |
|   TiKV    | 16 core+ | 32 GB+ |      SSD       | 10 Gigabit network card (2 preferred) |                   3                   |

{{< info >}}
- It is strongly recommended to use higher configuration in the production environment.
- It is recommended to keep the size of TiKV hard disk within 2 TB if you are using PCIe SSDs or within 1.5 TB if you are using regular SSDs.
{{< /info >}}

## Network requirements

> TiKV requires the following network port configuration to run. Based on the TiKV deployment in actual environments, the administrator can open relevant ports in the network side and host side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiKV uses the following network ports, and their default port numbers are listed below. Based on the TiKV deployment in actual environments, you can change the port number in the configuration.
```

|     Component     | Default Port | Description                                                                             |
|:-----------------:|:------------:|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|       TiKV        |    20160     | the TiKV communication port                                                             |

> |       TiKV        |    20180     | the communication port to report TiKV status                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|       TiKV        |    20180     | the port for fetching statistics, used by Prometheus                     |
```

> |        PD         |     2379     | the client port, for communication with clients                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|        PD         |     2379     | the client port, entrance for the clients to connect TiKV cluster                                         |
```
